So now let's turn our attention to
proving the correctness of this Greedy
Algorithm that we devised that
proportatedly minimizes the some of the
waited completion times.
Let me remind you of the formal
correctness claim.
The claim is that our second greedy
algorithm.
The one which looks at the ratio of each
job.
The ratio of the weight to the length and
sorts them in decreasing order, is always
correct.
For every possible input, it ouputs the,
the sequence of jobs, which minimizes the
weighted sum of completion times.
And as promised, it wasn't hard to devise
the greedy algorithm.
It's certainly not hard to analyze its
running time, which is N Log N.
The same time as sorting,
but it is quite tricky to prove it
correct.
The way we're going to do that, is going
to be our first example of what's called
an exchange argument, which is one of the
few recurring principles in the
correctness proofs of greedy algorithms.
So I'm actually going to give you proofs
of two different versions of this claim.
Both will make use of an exchange
argument in slightly different ways.
For starters that's going to be in the
next video and the next one.
I'm going to make a simplifying
assumption that there are no ties amongst
the ratios, that each job has its own
distinct ratio of its weight versus its
length.
In this case, we will be able to get away
with proof by contradiction.
So, on this slide lemme give you the high
level proof plan and of how this is going
to go, we will start delving into the
details on the next slide.
So on the high level we're going to begin
by fixing an arbitrary instance.
By which I mean,
you know just the description of the
weights and lengths that.
So remember, we have to prove that our
algorithm is always correct.
So we just fix an arbitrary instance, and
prove correctness on this arbitrary
instance.
So, as I said, for the case with no ties,
we're going to proceed by contradictions.
Remember, this means we assume what we're
trying to prove is false.
And from that, we derive something which
is obviously false inconsistent.
So, what would it mean to assume that
this claim is false?
It means there exists an instances for
which this greedy algorithm does not
produce an optimal solution.
For which there's some other solution not
output by the greedy algorithm, which is
better than that of the greedy algorithm.
So let me just give you some notation to
set this up.
We're going to let sigma denote the
greedy schedule.
And if our claim is false, that means
this is not an optimal schedule there's
some other one which is better so call
this better optimal sigma star.
So, to complete a proof by contradiction,
we need to derive something which is
obviously false and the way we're going
to do that here might strike you as
initially as a little weird but it turns
out to work really well in this context.
From this assumptionm that the greedy
algorithm is not optimal, and there is a
better scheduled sigma star, we're
actually going to exhibit yet another
schedule which is even better than sigma
star.
Strictly smaller picto.function value
than sigma star has.
Why is that a contradiction?
Well, by assumption, sigma star is
optimal so if you show that there is
something even better than sigma star,
sigma star is not optimal and that
completes the proof by contradiction.
So now lets start filling the details of
this proof plan and making it rigorous.
So as I said in this video and the next
we're going to be assuming that all of
the ratios are distinct.
In general, of course that need not be
true and I'll give you a separate
argument to handle the case of ties.
I'm going to make a second assumption.
But, unlike the first assumption, the
second assumption has no content.
It's just an assumption about notation.
I'm going to assume by renaming jobs,
that job one, number one, is the one with
the highest ratio.
Job number two is the one with the second
highest ration and so on.
Job ending the one with smallest ratio.
As a consequence of this switch in
notation the greeter schedule is very
simple to describe.
It just schedules job one first, then job
two second, then job three third, and so
on, all the way up to job N.
Okay, so we have one assumption which is
not without loss of generality, and we'll
have a separate argument for handling
ties.
We have a second assumption which is
without loss of generality.
It's just an agreement amongst friends
who want to minimize notation.
And now, lets actually derive something
with content.
So given that the greedy schedule is just
the jobs in order, one, two, three, all
the way up to N.
And given our assumption that the greedy
solution is not optimal, and instead
there's some other distinct optimal
schedule sigma star.
I claim that sigma star must contain
consecutive jobs, that it is somewhere in
the schedule, sigma star, I can isolate a
pair of jobs, one executed after the
other, such that the earlier of those two
consecutive jobs has a larger index.
I'm going to call these jobs I and J with
I being earlier.
So again by virtue· of the optimal
solution sigma star being something other
than the schedule one, two, three up to N
there must be two jobs somewhere in the
schedule executed in a row one after the
other so that the earlier job I has a
higher index then the subsequent job J.
Why is this true?
Well the reasoning is that, the only
schedule.
It has the property that indices only go
up as you go from the earliest job to the
latest job.
The only way that indices will always go
up is if you schedule the jobs one, two,
three, all the way up to N.
There is no other schedule with a
property that indices always go up other
than one, two, three, all the way up to
N.
So this is an observation that's going to
be important in the rest of the proof, so
make sure you pause, give yourself enough
time to stare at it and commit yourself
it is in fact true.
Any, any schedule other than one, two,
three, all the way through N, have to
have consecutive jobs, the earlier one
having a higher index than the later one.
So I'm now in a position to explain the
exchange in the exchange argument.
So let me just distill the two key points
from the discussion so far.
So first of all we have changed notations
so that ratios are decreasing with index
and this is exactly the same as the
schedule that the greedy algorithm will
output.
And then assuming that the optimal
schedule sigma star is something else we
know it has consecutive jobs with a
earlier one having a higher index.
Keep in mind, our high level proof plan
from the first slide of this video.
Where, we're doing a proof by
contradiction.
We need to derive a contradiction and
what we're going to do is we're going to
exhibit a schedule even better than sigma
star thereby contradicting it's purported
ophthalmology.
So how do we do that?
We do that with an exchange.
So this exchange is going to take the
place of methodic experiment.
We're going to take this purportedly
optimal schedule sigma star and we're
going to switch the order just of the two
jobs I and J leaving all of the other
jobs unchanged.
So sigma star consists of various jobs.
It's called stuff collectively.
then next is job I and after that
immediately is job J.
And then there's possibly some more jobs
that get executed after J.
And remember, we observe that, we can
chose I and J so that I has a higher
index than J despite being scheduled
earlier.
Then we execute this exchange.
The stuff before INJ is the same as
before.
The more stuff after JNI, is the same as
But we're going to have them occur in
opposite order.
And the key thing we have to understand
next is, what are the ramifications of
this exchange?
What are the costs?
What are the benefits?
That's how we'll begin, the next video .